README.md, before:

## Commit Guidlines

You are welcome to contribute, add to and extend Diaspora however you see fit.  We
will do our best to incorporate everything that meets our guidelines.

We need you to fill out a
[contributor agreement form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/joindiaspora.com/viewform?formkey=dGI2cHA3ZnNHLTJvbm10LUhXRTJjR0E6MQ&theme=0AX42CRMsmRFbUy1iOGYwN2U2Mi1hNWU0LTRlNjEtYWMyOC1lZmU4ODg1ODc1ODI&ifq)
before we can accept your patches.  The agreement gives Diaspora joint
ownership of the patch so the copyright isn't scattered.  You can find it
[here](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/joindiaspora.com/viewform?formkey=dGI2cHA3ZnNHLTJvbm10LUhXRTJjR0E6MQ&theme=0AX42CRMsmRFbUy1iOGYwN2U2Mi1hNWU0LTRlNjEtYWMyOC1lZmU4ODg1ODc1ODI&ifq).

All commits must be tested, and after each commit, all tests should be green
before a pull request is sent.  Please write your tests in Rspec.

GEMS: We would like to keep external dependencies unduplicated.  We're using
Nokogiri, Mongomapper, and EM::HttpRequest as much as possible.  We have a few
gems in the project we'd rather not use, but if you can, use dependencies we
already have.

# Diaspora

The privacy aware, personally controlled, do-it-all, open source social
network.

**DISCLAIMER: THIS IS PRE-ALPHA SOFTWARE AND SHOULD BE TREATED ACCORDINGLY.**
**PLEASE, DO NOT RUN IN PRODUCTION. IT IS FUN TO GET RUNNING, BUT EXPECT THINGS
TO BE BROKEN**

We are continuing to build features and improve the code base.
When we think it is ready for general use, we will post more detailed
instructions.

## Notice

We currently run Diaspora with the [thin](http://code.macournoyer.com/thin/) as
our webserver, behind [nginx](http://wiki.nginx.org/Main). Diaspora uses an
asynchronous [EventMachine](http://rubyeventmachine.com/) queue inside the appserver
to send messages between seeds.  If you use mod_rails, mongrel, or another 
non-eventmachine based application server, federation may not work.

If you don't like thin, you can always try
[Rainbows!](http://rainbows.rubyforge.org/) We will try to fully support more
webservers later, but that is what works for now.

These instructions are for machines running [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/),
[Fedora](http://www.fedoraproject.org) or Mac OS X. We are developing Diaspora
for the latest and greatest browsers, so please update your Firefox, Chrome or
Safari to the latest and greatest.

## Preparing your system

In order to run Diaspora, you will need to download the following dependencies
(specific instructions follow):

- Build Tools - Packages needed to compile the components that follow.
- [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org) - The Ruby programming language.
  (We're using **1.8.7**.  It comes preinstalled on Mac OS X.)
- [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org) - A snappy noSQL database.
- [OpenSSL](http://www.openssl.org/) - An encryption library.
  (It comes preinstalled on Mac OS X and Ubuntu.)
- [ImageMagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/) - An Image processing library used
  to resize uploaded photos.
- [Git](http://git-scm.com/) - The fast version control system.

After you have Ruby installed on your system, you will need to get RubyGems,
then install Bundler:

- [RubyGems](http://rubygems.org/) - Source for Ruby gems.
- [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/) - Gem management tool for Ruby projects.

**We suggest using a package management system to download these dependencies.
Trust us, it's going to make your life a lot easier.  If you're using Mac OS X,
you can use [homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/); if you're using
Ubuntu, just use [Synaptic](http://www.nongnu.org/synaptic/) (it comes
pre-installed); if you're using Fedora simply use
[yum](http://yum.baseurl.org/). The instructions below assume you have these
installed.**

### Build Tools

To install build tools on **Ubuntu**, run the following (includes the gcc and
xml parsing dependencies):

		sudo apt-get install build-essential libxslt1.1 libxslt1-dev libxml2

To install build tools on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install libxslt libxslt-devel libxml2 libxml2-devel

To install build tools on **Mac OS X**, you need to download and install
[Xcode](http://developer.apple.com/technologies/tools/xcode.html).

### Ruby

To install Ruby 1.8.7 on **Ubuntu**, run the following command:

		sudo apt-get install ruby-full

Please note that you need to have Universe enabled in your
/etc/apt/sources.list file to install ruby using apt-get.

At this time Fedora does not have Ruby 1.8.7. As a workaround it is possible to
use [rvm](http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/) with a locally compiled Ruby
installation.  A semi automated method for doing this is available.  It is
highly recommended that you review the script before running it so you
understand what will occur.  The script can be executed by running the
following command:

		./script/bootstrap-fedora-diaspora.sh

After reviewing and executing the above script you will need to follow the
"MongoDB" section and then you should skip all the way down to "Start Mongo".

If you're on **Mac OS X**, you already have Ruby on your system.  Yay!

### MongoDB

To install MongoDB on **Ubuntu**, add the official MongoDB repository
[here](http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Ubuntu+and+Debian+packages).

For Lucid, add the following line to your /etc/apt/sources.list (for other
distros, see http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Ubuntu+and+Debian+packages):

		deb http://downloads.mongodb.org/distros/ubuntu 10.4 10gen

Then run:
		sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv 7F0CEB10
		sudo apt-get update
		sudo apt-get install mongodb-stable

You can also run the binary directly by doing the following:

If you're running a 32-bit system, run:

		wget http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-i686-1.6.2.tgz

If you're running a 64-bit system, run:

		wget http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-x86_64-1.6.2.tgz

Then run:

		# extract
		tar xzf mongodb-linux-i686-1.4.0.tgz
		# create the required data directory
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/


To install MongoDB on a x86_64 **Fedora** system, add the official MongoDB
repository from MongoDB
(http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/CentOS+and+Fedora+Packages) into
/etc/yum.repos.d/10gen.repo:

		[10gen]
		name=10gen Repository
		baseurl=http://downloads.mongodb.org/distros/fedora/13/os/x86_64/
		gpgcheck=0
		enabled=1

Then use yum to install the packages:

		sudo yum install mongo-stable mongo-stable-server

If you're running a 32-bit system, run `wget
http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-i686-1.6.2.tgz`. If you're
running a 64-bit system, run `wget
http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-x86_64-1.6.2.tgz`.

		# extract
		tar xzf mongodb-linux-i686-1.4.0.tgz
		# create the required data directory
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/

To install MongoDB on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install mongo
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/

### OpenSSL

If you're running either **Ubuntu**, **Fedora** or **Mac OS X** you already
have OpenSSL installed!

### ImageMagick

To install ImageMagick on **Ubuntu**, run the following:

		sudo apt-get install imagemagick libmagick9-dev

To install ImageMagick on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install ImageMagick

To install ImageMagick on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install imagemagick

### Git

To install Git on **Ubuntu**, run the following:

		sudo apt-get install git-core

To install Git on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install git


To install Git on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install git


### Rubygems

On **Ubuntu** 10.04, run the following:

		sudo add-apt-repository ppa:maco.m/ruby
		sudo apt-get update
		sudo apt-get install rubygems

This PPA is maintained by an Ubuntu Developer. For Ubuntu 10.10, this version
of rubygems is in the repositories.

On **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install rubygems

On **Mac OS X**, RubyGems comes preinstalled; however, you might need to update
it for use with the latest Bundler. To update RubyGems, run `sudo gem update
--system`.


### Bundler

After RubyGems is updated, simply run `sudo gem install bundler` to get
Bundler. If you're using Ubuntu repository .debs, bundler is found at
/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/bundle


## Getting Diaspora

		git clone http://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git

If you have never used github before, their
[help desk](http://help.github.com/) has a pretty awesome guide on getting
setup.


## Running Diaspora

### Install required gems

To start the app server for the first time, you need to use Bundler to install
Diaspora's gem depencencies.  Run `bundle install` from Diaspora's root
directory.  Bundler will also warn you if there is a new dependency and you
need to bundle install again.

### Start Mongo

If you installed the Ubuntu package, MongoDB should already be running (if not,
run `service mongodb start`). If you installed the binary manually, run `sudo
mongod` from where mongo is installed to start mongo.

If you installed the Fedora package, MongoDB will need to be started via
`service mongodb start`. If you installed the binary manually, run `sudo
mongod` from where Mongo is installed to start Mongo.

If you installed the OsX package through "brew", MongoDB will need to be
started via `sudo launchctl load
/Library/LaunchDaemons/org.mongodb.mongod.plist`. (before you have to go to
/Library/LaunchDaemons and add a symlink to
/usr/local/Cellar/mongodb/1.6.2-x86_64/org.mongodb.mongod.plist)

Diaspora will not run unless Mongo is running.  Mongo will not run by default,
and will need to be started every time you wish to use or run the test suite
for Diaspora.

### Run the server

`./script/server` will start both thin and the websocket server.  If you want
to run a different app server, you will have to run them separately.  See below
for instructions.

### Run the app server

Once mongo is running and bundler has finished, run `bundle exec thin start`
from the root Diaspora directory.  This will start the app server in
development mode[.](http://bit.ly/9mwtUw)

### Run the websocket server

run `bundle exec ruby ./script/websocket_server` to start the websocket server
on port 8080. Change the port in config/app_config.yml.

### Logging in with a sample user

Run `rake db:seed:tom`, then login with user `tom` and password `evankorth`.
More details in db/seeds/tom.rb.

### Testing

Diaspora's test suite uses [rspec](http://rspec.info/), a behavior driven
testing framework.  In order to run the tests, run `bundle exec rspec spec`.

## Resources

We are maintaining a
[public tracker project](http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/61641)
and a
[roadmap](https://github.com/diaspora/diaspora/wiki/Roadmap). Also, you can
file [bug reports](https://github.com/diaspora/diaspora/issues) right here on
github.

Ongoing discussion:
- [Diaspora Developer Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/diaspora-dev)
- [Diaspora Discussion Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/diaspora-discuss)
- [Diaspora Q&A site](http://diaspora.shapado.com/)
- [#diaspora-dev IRC channel](irc://irc.freenode.net/#diaspora-dev)
  ([join via the web client](http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=diaspora-dev))

More general info and updates about the project can be found on:
[Our blog](http://joindiaspora.com),
[and on Twitter](http://twitter.com/joindiaspora). 
Also, be sure to join the official [mailing list](http://http://eepurl.com/Vebk).

If you wish to contact us privately about any exploits in Diaspora you may
find, you can email
[exploits@joindiaspora.com](mailto:exploits@joindiaspora.com).

Commit message:

Add mention of app_config.yml to readme

README.md, after:

## Commit Guidlines

You are welcome to contribute, add to and extend Diaspora however you see fit.  We
will do our best to incorporate everything that meets our guidelines.

We need you to fill out a
[contributor agreement form](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/joindiaspora.com/viewform?formkey=dGI2cHA3ZnNHLTJvbm10LUhXRTJjR0E6MQ&theme=0AX42CRMsmRFbUy1iOGYwN2U2Mi1hNWU0LTRlNjEtYWMyOC1lZmU4ODg1ODc1ODI&ifq)
before we can accept your patches.  The agreement gives Diaspora joint
ownership of the patch so the copyright isn't scattered.  You can find it
[here](https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/joindiaspora.com/viewform?formkey=dGI2cHA3ZnNHLTJvbm10LUhXRTJjR0E6MQ&theme=0AX42CRMsmRFbUy1iOGYwN2U2Mi1hNWU0LTRlNjEtYWMyOC1lZmU4ODg1ODc1ODI&ifq).

All commits must be tested, and after each commit, all tests should be green
before a pull request is sent.  Please write your tests in Rspec.

GEMS: We would like to keep external dependencies unduplicated.  We're using
Nokogiri, Mongomapper, and EM::HttpRequest as much as possible.  We have a few
gems in the project we'd rather not use, but if you can, use dependencies we
already have.

# Diaspora

The privacy aware, personally controlled, do-it-all, open source social
network.

**DISCLAIMER: THIS IS PRE-ALPHA SOFTWARE AND SHOULD BE TREATED ACCORDINGLY.**
**PLEASE, DO NOT RUN IN PRODUCTION. IT IS FUN TO GET RUNNING, BUT EXPECT THINGS
TO BE BROKEN**

We are continuing to build features and improve the code base.
When we think it is ready for general use, we will post more detailed
instructions.

## Notice

We currently run Diaspora with the [thin](http://code.macournoyer.com/thin/) as
our webserver, behind [nginx](http://wiki.nginx.org/Main). Diaspora uses an
asynchronous [EventMachine](http://rubyeventmachine.com/) queue inside the appserver
to send messages between seeds.  If you use mod_rails, mongrel, or another 
non-eventmachine based application server, federation may not work.

If you don't like thin, you can always try
[Rainbows!](http://rainbows.rubyforge.org/) We will try to fully support more
webservers later, but that is what works for now.

These instructions are for machines running [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/),
[Fedora](http://www.fedoraproject.org) or Mac OS X. We are developing Diaspora
for the latest and greatest browsers, so please update your Firefox, Chrome or
Safari to the latest and greatest.

## Preparing your system

In order to run Diaspora, you will need to download the following dependencies
(specific instructions follow):

- Build Tools - Packages needed to compile the components that follow.
- [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org) - The Ruby programming language.
  (We're using **1.8.7**.  It comes preinstalled on Mac OS X.)
- [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org) - A snappy noSQL database.
- [OpenSSL](http://www.openssl.org/) - An encryption library.
  (It comes preinstalled on Mac OS X and Ubuntu.)
- [ImageMagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/) - An Image processing library used
  to resize uploaded photos.
- [Git](http://git-scm.com/) - The fast version control system.

After you have Ruby installed on your system, you will need to get RubyGems,
then install Bundler:

- [RubyGems](http://rubygems.org/) - Source for Ruby gems.
- [Bundler](http://gembundler.com/) - Gem management tool for Ruby projects.

**We suggest using a package management system to download these dependencies.
Trust us, it's going to make your life a lot easier.  If you're using Mac OS X,
you can use [homebrew](http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/); if you're using
Ubuntu, just use [Synaptic](http://www.nongnu.org/synaptic/) (it comes
pre-installed); if you're using Fedora simply use
[yum](http://yum.baseurl.org/). The instructions below assume you have these
installed.**

### Build Tools

To install build tools on **Ubuntu**, run the following (includes the gcc and
xml parsing dependencies):

		sudo apt-get install build-essential libxslt1.1 libxslt1-dev libxml2

To install build tools on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install libxslt libxslt-devel libxml2 libxml2-devel

To install build tools on **Mac OS X**, you need to download and install
[Xcode](http://developer.apple.com/technologies/tools/xcode.html).

### Ruby

To install Ruby 1.8.7 on **Ubuntu**, run the following command:

		sudo apt-get install ruby-full

Please note that you need to have Universe enabled in your
/etc/apt/sources.list file to install ruby using apt-get.

At this time Fedora does not have Ruby 1.8.7. As a workaround it is possible to
use [rvm](http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/) with a locally compiled Ruby
installation.  A semi automated method for doing this is available.  It is
highly recommended that you review the script before running it so you
understand what will occur.  The script can be executed by running the
following command:

		./script/bootstrap-fedora-diaspora.sh

After reviewing and executing the above script you will need to follow the
"MongoDB" section and then you should skip all the way down to "Start Mongo".

If you're on **Mac OS X**, you already have Ruby on your system.  Yay!

### MongoDB

To install MongoDB on **Ubuntu**, add the official MongoDB repository
[here](http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Ubuntu+and+Debian+packages).

For Lucid, add the following line to your /etc/apt/sources.list (for other
distros, see http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Ubuntu+and+Debian+packages):

		deb http://downloads.mongodb.org/distros/ubuntu 10.4 10gen

Then run:
		sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv 7F0CEB10
		sudo apt-get update
		sudo apt-get install mongodb-stable

You can also run the binary directly by doing the following:

If you're running a 32-bit system, run:

		wget http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-i686-1.6.2.tgz

If you're running a 64-bit system, run:

		wget http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-x86_64-1.6.2.tgz

Then run:

		# extract
		tar xzf mongodb-linux-i686-1.4.0.tgz
		# create the required data directory
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/


To install MongoDB on a x86_64 **Fedora** system, add the official MongoDB
repository from MongoDB
(http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/CentOS+and+Fedora+Packages) into
/etc/yum.repos.d/10gen.repo:

		[10gen]
		name=10gen Repository
		baseurl=http://downloads.mongodb.org/distros/fedora/13/os/x86_64/
		gpgcheck=0
		enabled=1

Then use yum to install the packages:

		sudo yum install mongo-stable mongo-stable-server

If you're running a 32-bit system, run `wget
http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-i686-1.6.2.tgz`. If you're
running a 64-bit system, run `wget
http://fastdl.mongodb.org/linux/mongodb-linux-x86_64-1.6.2.tgz`.

		# extract
		tar xzf mongodb-linux-i686-1.4.0.tgz
		# create the required data directory
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/

To install MongoDB on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install mongo
		sudo mkdir -p /data/db
		sudo chmod -Rv 777 /data/

### OpenSSL

If you're running either **Ubuntu**, **Fedora** or **Mac OS X** you already
have OpenSSL installed!

### ImageMagick

To install ImageMagick on **Ubuntu**, run the following:

		sudo apt-get install imagemagick libmagick9-dev

To install ImageMagick on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install ImageMagick

To install ImageMagick on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install imagemagick

### Git

To install Git on **Ubuntu**, run the following:

		sudo apt-get install git-core

To install Git on **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install git


To install Git on **Mac OS X**, run the following:

		brew install git


### Rubygems

On **Ubuntu** 10.04, run the following:

		sudo add-apt-repository ppa:maco.m/ruby
		sudo apt-get update
		sudo apt-get install rubygems

This PPA is maintained by an Ubuntu Developer. For Ubuntu 10.10, this version
of rubygems is in the repositories.

On **Fedora**, run the following:

		sudo yum install rubygems

On **Mac OS X**, RubyGems comes preinstalled; however, you might need to update
it for use with the latest Bundler. To update RubyGems, run `sudo gem update
--system`.


### Bundler

After RubyGems is updated, simply run `sudo gem install bundler` to get
Bundler. If you're using Ubuntu repository .debs, bundler is found at
/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin/bundle


## Getting Diaspora

		git clone http://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git

If you have never used github before, their
[help desk](http://help.github.com/) has a pretty awesome guide on getting
setup.


## Running Diaspora

### Install required gems

To start the app server for the first time, you need to use Bundler to install
Diaspora's gem depencencies.  Run `bundle install` from Diaspora's root
directory.  Bundler will also warn you if there is a new dependency and you
need to bundle install again.

### Start Mongo

If you installed the Ubuntu package, MongoDB should already be running (if not,
run `service mongodb start`). If you installed the binary manually, run `sudo
mongod` from where mongo is installed to start mongo.

If you installed the Fedora package, MongoDB will need to be started via
`service mongodb start`. If you installed the binary manually, run `sudo
mongod` from where Mongo is installed to start Mongo.

If you installed the OsX package through "brew", MongoDB will need to be
started via `sudo launchctl load
/Library/LaunchDaemons/org.mongodb.mongod.plist`. (before you have to go to
/Library/LaunchDaemons and add a symlink to
/usr/local/Cellar/mongodb/1.6.2-x86_64/org.mongodb.mongod.plist)

Diaspora will not run unless Mongo is running.  Mongo will not run by default,
and will need to be started every time you wish to use or run the test suite
for Diaspora.

### Configure Diaspora

Diaspora needs to know where on the internet it is.  Copy config/app_config_example.yml
to config/app_config.yml, put your url into the url field, and make any other
needed configuration changes.

### Run the server

`./script/server` will start both thin and the websocket server.  If you want
to run a different app server, you will have to run them separately.  See below
for instructions.

### Run the app server

Once mongo is running and bundler has finished, run `bundle exec thin start`
from the root Diaspora directory.  This will start the app server in
development mode[.](http://bit.ly/9mwtUw)

### Run the websocket server

run `bundle exec ruby ./script/websocket_server` to start the websocket server
on port 8080. Change the port in config/app_config.yml.

### Logging in with a sample user

Run `rake db:seed:tom`, then login with user `tom` and password `evankorth`.
More details in db/seeds/tom.rb.

### Testing

Diaspora's test suite uses [rspec](http://rspec.info/), a behavior driven
testing framework.  In order to run the tests, run `bundle exec rspec spec`.

## Resources

We are maintaining a
[public tracker project](http://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/61641)
and a
[roadmap](https://github.com/diaspora/diaspora/wiki/Roadmap). Also, you can
file [bug reports](https://github.com/diaspora/diaspora/issues) right here on
github.

Ongoing discussion:
- [Diaspora Developer Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/diaspora-dev)
- [Diaspora Discussion Google Group](http://groups.google.com/group/diaspora-discuss)
- [Diaspora Q&A site](http://diaspora.shapado.com/)
- [#diaspora-dev IRC channel](irc://irc.freenode.net/#diaspora-dev)
  ([join via the web client](http://webchat.freenode.net?channels=diaspora-dev))

More general info and updates about the project can be found on:
[Our blog](http://joindiaspora.com),
[and on Twitter](http://twitter.com/joindiaspora). 
Also, be sure to join the official [mailing list](http://http://eepurl.com/Vebk).

If you wish to contact us privately about any exploits in Diaspora you may
find, you can email
[exploits@joindiaspora.com](mailto:exploits@joindiaspora.com).
