pkg/ubuntu/README.md, before:

## Package-oriented install for ubuntu.

Here are somediaspora-installdiaspora-install scripts to install diaspora on Ubuntu. They are designed to
work as a first step towards packaging, but should be usable as is.

### Synopsis

Bootstrap the distribution from git:
    sudo apt-get install git-core
    git clone git://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git
    cd diaspora/pkg/ubuntu

Install the dependencies (a good time for a coffe break)
    ./diaspora-install-deps

Create and install the diaspora bundle and application:
    ./make-dist.sh bundle
    sudo ./diaspora-bundle-install dist/diaspora-bundle-*.tar.gz

    ./make-dist.sh source
    sudo ./diaspora-install dist/diaspora-0.0*.tar.gz

Initiate and start the server;
    sudo ./diaspora-setup
    sudo su - diaspora
    cd /usr/share/diaspora/master
    ./script/server

### Upgrading

The normal procedure to update is to just
    $ sudo su - diaspora
    $ cd /usr/share/diaspora/master/pkg/ubuntu
    $ ./make-dist.sh bundle
    $ ./make-dist.sh source

And then use diaspore-install and diaspora-install-bundle as above.

It's necessary to always have the correct bundle. The easy way is to just
    $ ./make-dist.sh bundle

    Repo:       http://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git
    Bundle:     dist/diaspora-bundle-0.0-1010111342_afad554.tar.gz

The command will return the last built bundle (which is cached) if it's
OK to use. If it's not, it will build a new.

### Notes

The application lives in /usr/share/diaspora/master. All writable areas
(log, uploads, tmp) are links to /var/lib/diaspora. The config file lives
in /etc/diaspora. All files in /usr/share are read-only, owned by root.

The bundle lives in /usr/lib/diaspora-bundle, readonly, owned by root.
Application finds it through the patched .bundle/config in root dir.

Once diaspora ins installed ,makedist.sh et. al. are available in
/usr/share/diaspora/master/pkg/ubuntu, so there's no need to checkout
the stuff using git in this case.

The user diaspora is added during install.

make-dist.sh accepts arguments to get a specified commit and/or use another
repo.

This has been tested on a Ubuntu 32-bit 10.10 , clean server. Since this
is a very small dist, the dependencies should possibly be complete.

The diaspora-wsd is just placeholder FTM, it does **not** work.

Please, report any problems!

Commit message:

Updating to reflect new tests on 10.04 desktop.

pkg/ubuntu/README.md, after:

## Package-oriented install for ubuntu.

Here are somediaspora-installdiaspora-install scripts to install diaspora on Ubuntu. They are designed to
work as a first step towards packaging, but should be usable as is.

### Synopsis

Bootstrap the distribution from git:
    sudo apt-get install git-core
    git clone git://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git
    cd diaspora/pkg/ubuntu

Install the dependencies (a good time for a coffe break)
    ./diaspora-install-deps

Create and install the diaspora bundle and application:
    ./make-dist.sh bundle
    sudo ./diaspora-bundle-install dist/diaspora-bundle-*.tar.gz

    ./make-dist.sh source
    sudo ./diaspora-install dist/diaspora-0.0*.tar.gz

Initiate and start the server;
    sudo ./diaspora-setup
    sudo su - diaspora
    cd /usr/share/diaspora/master
    ./script/server

### Upgrading

The normal procedure to update is to just
    $ sudo su - diaspora
    $ cd /usr/share/diaspora/master/pkg/ubuntu
    $ ./make-dist.sh bundle
    $ ./make-dist.sh source

And then use diaspore-install and diaspora-install-bundle as above.

It's necessary to always have the correct bundle. The easy way is to just
    $ ./make-dist.sh bundle

    Repo:       http://github.com/diaspora/diaspora.git
    Bundle:     dist/diaspora-bundle-0.0-1010111342_afad554.tar.gz

The command will return the last built bundle (which is cached) if it's
OK to use. If it's not, it will build a new.

### Notes

The application lives in /usr/share/diaspora/master. All writable areas
(log, uploads, tmp) are links to /var/lib/diaspora. The config file lives
in /etc/diaspora. All files in /usr/share are read-only, owned by root.

The bundle lives in /usr/lib/diaspora-bundle, readonly, owned by root.
Application finds it through the patched .bundle/config in root dir.

Once diaspora ins installed ,makedist.sh et. al. are available in
/usr/share/diaspora/master/pkg/ubuntu, so there's no need to checkout
the stuff using git in this case.

The user diaspora is added during install.

make-dist.sh accepts arguments to get a specified commit and/or use another
repo.

This has been tested on a Ubuntu 32-bit 10.10 , clean server and on 10.04
Lucid desktop, also clean installation.

mongodb is having problems occasionally. Sometimes the dependencies are not
installed, and mongod refuses to start. invoke /usr/bin/mongod -f /etc/mongodb.conf
fo test. The lockfile /var/lib/mongodb/mongod.conf is also a potential
problem. Remove to make it start again.

The diaspora-wsd is just placeholder FTM, it does **not** work.

Please, report any problems!
